(Doc+) KB Diag (#188167)
elastic/kibana: docs/user/troubleshooting/diagnostic.asciidoc

[[kibana-diagnostic]]

> == Capturing diagnostics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Capturing diagnostics
```

++++
<titleabbrev>Capture diagnostics</titleabbrev>
++++
:keywords: Kibana diagnostic, diagnostics

The {kib} https://github.com/elastic/support-diagnostics[Support Diagnostic] 
tool captures a point-in-time snapshot of {kib} and its Task Manager health. 
It works against {kib} versions greater than or equal to 7.11.0. 

This information can be used to troubleshoot problems with {kib} instance. 
For examples of issues that you can troubleshoot using Support Diagnostic 
tool output, refer to the 
https://www.elastic.co/blog/troubleshooting-kibana-health[Troubleshooting 
Kibana Health blog].

You can generate diagnostic information using this tool before you contact 
https://support.elastic.co[Elastic Support] or 
https://discuss.elastic.co[Elastic Discuss] to minimize turnaround time. 

[discrete]
[[kibana-diagnostic-tool-requirements]]

> === Requirements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Requirements
```

-  Java Runtime Environment or Java Development Kit v1.8 or higher

[discrete]
[[kibana-diagnostic-tool-access]]

> === Access the tool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Access the tool
```

The Support Diagnostic tool is included as a sub-library in some Elastic 
deployments: 

* {ece}: Located under **{ece}** > **Deployment** > **Operations** > 
**Prepare Bundle** > **{kib}**. 
* {eck}: Run as https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/current/k8s-take-eck-dump.html[`eck-diagnostics`].

You can also directly download the `diagnostics-X.X.X-dist.zip` file for 
the latest Support Diagnostic release from 
https://github.com/elastic/support-diagnostics/releases/latest[the 
`support-diagnostic` repo].

[discrete]
[[kibana-diagnostic-capture]]

> === Capture diagnostic information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Capture diagnostic information
```

----
+
**Windows**
+
[source,sh]
----
sudo .\diagnostics.bat --type kibana-local --host localhost --port 5601 -u elastic -p --bypassDiagVerify --ssl --noVerify
----
+
[TIP]
.Script execution modes
====
You can execute the script in three https://github.com/elastic/support-diagnostics#diagnostic-types[modes]: 

* `kibana-local` (default, recommended): Polls the <<api,{kib} API>>, 
gathers operating system info, and captures cluster and GC logs. 

* `kibana-remote`: Establishes an ssh session 
to the applicable target server to pull the same information as `kibana-local`.

* `kibana-api`: Polls the <<api,{kib} API>>. All other data must be 
collected manually.
====

. When the script has completed, verify that no errors were logged to 
`diagnostic.log`. If the log file contains errors, then refer to 
<<diagnostic-log-errors,Diagnose errors in `diagnostic.log`>>.

. If the script completed without errors, then an archive with the 
format `<diagnostic type>-diagnostics-<DateTimeStamp>.zip` is created in 
the working directory, or an output directory you have specified. You can 
review or share the diagnostic archive as needed.

[discrete]
[[kibana-diagnostic-non-200]]

> === Diagnose a non-200 response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Diagnose a non-200 response
```

When you poll your Task Manager health, if you receive any response other 
than `200 0K`, then the diagnostic tool might not work as intended. The 
following are possible error codes and their resolutions:

HTTP 401 `UNAUTHENTICATED`::
Additional information in the error will usually indicate either 
that your `username:password` pair is invalid, or that your {es} `.security` 
index is unavailable and you need to setup a temporary 

> <<file-realm,file-based realm>> user with `role:superuser` to authenticate.

Author: Sorry, was an ES link I missed. Fixed.

HTTP 403 `UNAUTHORIZED`::
Your `username` is recognized but has insufficient permissions to run the 
diagnostic. Either use a different username or elevate the user's privileges.

> HTTP 429 `TOO_MANY_REQUESTS` (for example, `circuit_breaking_exception`)::
> Your username authenticated and authorized, but the {es} cluster is under 
> sufficiently high strain that it's not responding to requests. These 
> responses are usually intermittent. You will usually want to pivot and 
> resolving {es}'s health first before returning to {kib}. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HTTP 429 `TOO_MANY_REQUESTS` (for example, `circuit_breaking_exception`)::
The authentication and authorization were successful, but the {es} cluster isn't  
responding to requests. This issue is usually intermittent and can happen 
when the cluster is overwhelmed. In this case, resolve {es}'s health first before 
returning to {kib}. 
```

HTTP 504 `BAD_GATEWAY`::

> Your network is experiencing issues reaching {kib}. You might be using 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your network has trouble reaching {kib}. You might be using 
```

a proxy or firewall. Consider running the diagnostic tool from a different 
location, confirming your port, or using an IP instead of a URL domain. 

[discrete]
[[kibana-diagnostic-log-errors]]

> === Diagnose errors in `diagnostic.log`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Diagnose errors in `diagnostic.log`
```

The following are common errors that you might encounter when running 
the diagnostic tool:

* `Error: Could not find or load main class com.elastic.support.diagnostics.DiagnosticApp`
+
This indicates that you accidentally downloaded the source code file 
instead of `diagnostics-X.X.X-dist.zip` from the releases page.

* A `security_exception` that includes `is unauthorized for user`:
+
The provided user has insufficient admin permissions to run the diagnostic 
tool. Use another user, or grant the user `role:superuser` privileges.

* `{kib} Server is not Ready yet`

> + This indicates issues with {kib}'s dependencies blocking full start-up. 
> To investigate, see <<not-ready,Troubleshoot {kib} UI error>>. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ 
This indicates issues with {kib}'s dependencies blocking full start-up. 
To investigate, check <<not-ready,Troubleshoot {kib} UI error>>. 
```
